FCND-Estimation-CPP.md, before:

# Estimation Project #

Welcome to the estimation project.  In this project, you will be developing the estimation portion of the controller used in the CPP simulator.  By the end of the project, your simulated quad will be flying with your estimator and your custom controller (from the previous project)!

This README is broken down into the following sections:

 - [Setup](#setup) - the environment and code setup required to get started and a brief overview of the project structure
 - [The Tasks](#the-tasks) - the tasks you will need to complete for the project
 - [Tips and Tricks](#tips-and-tricks) - some additional tips and tricks you may find useful along the way
 - [Submission](#submission) - overview of the requirements for your project submission


## Setup ##

This project will continue to use the C++ development environment you set up in the Controls C++ project.

 1. Clone the repository
 ```
 git clone https://github.com/udacity/FCND-Estimation-CPP.git
 ```

 2. Import the code into your IDE like done in the [Controls C++ project](https://github.com/udacity/FCND-Controls-CPP#development-environment-setup)

 3. You should now be able to compile and run the estimation simulator just as you did in the controls project


### Project Structure ###

For this project, you will be interacting with a few more files than before.

 - The EKF is already partially implemented for you in `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`

 - Parameters for tuning the EKF are in the parameter file `QuadEstimatorEKF.txt`

 - When you turn on various sensors (the scenarios configure them, e.g. `Quad.Sensors += SimIMU, SimMag, SimGPS`), additional sensor plots will become available to see what the simulated sensors measure.

 - The EKF implementation exposes both the estimated state and a number of additional variables. In particular:

   - `Quad.Est.E.X` is the error in estimated X position from true value.  More generally, the variables in `<vehicle>.Est.E.*` are relative errors, though some are combined errors (e.g. MaxEuler).

   - `Quad.Est.S.X` is the estimated standard deviation of the X state (that is, the square root of the appropriate diagonal variable in the covariance matrix). More generally, the variables in `<vehicle>.Est.S.*` are standard deviations calculated from the estimator state covariance matrix.

   - `Quad.Est.D` contains miscellaneous additional debug variables useful in diagnosing the filter. You may or might not find these useful but they were helpful to us in verifying the filter and may give you some ideas if you hit a block.


#### `config` Directory ####

In the `config` directory, in addition to finding the configuration files for your controller and your estimator, you will also see configuration files for each of the simulations.  For this project, you will be working with simulations 06 through 11 and you may find it insightful to take a look at the configuration for the simulation.

As an example, if we look through the configuration file for scenario 07, we see the following parameters controlling the sensor:

```
# Sensors
Quad.Sensors = SimIMU
# use a perfect IMU
SimIMU.AccelStd = 0,0,0
SimIMU.GyroStd = 0,0,0
```

This configuration tells us that the simulator is only using an IMU and the sensor data will have no noise.  You will notice that for each simulator these parameters will change slightly as additional sensors are being used and the noise behavior of the sensors change.


## The Tasks ##

Once again, you will be building up your estimator in pieces.  At each step, there will be a set of success criteria that will be displayed both in the plots and in the terminal output to help you along the way.

Project outline:

 - [Step 1: Sensor Noise](#step-1-sensor-noise)
 - [Step 2: Attitude Estimation](#step-2-attitude-estimation)
 - [Step 3: Prediction Step](#step-3-prediction-step)
 - [Step 4: Magnetometer Update](#step-4-magnetometer-update)
 - [Step 5: Closed Loop + GPS Update](#step-5-closed-loop--gps-update)
 - [Step 6: Adding Your Controller](#step-6-adding-your-controller)



### Step 1: Sensor Noise ###

I ran the scenario_06_NoisySensors and recorded the data into the two data files in config/log/Graph1.txt and config/log/Graph2.txt. I then ran the Compute-Std.py on these files to obtain the standard deviations of the Quad.GPS.X and the Quad.IMU.AX data as follows.

```c
GPS X Std: 0.7204664990698312
IMU X Std: 0.5102750028692653
```

This data was then copied onto the config/06_SensorNoise.txt file as shown below

```c
MeasuredStdDev_GPSPosXY = 0.7204664990698312
MeasuredStdDev_AccelXY = 0.5102750028692653
```

The result when I ran the simulation is shown below with 68% of the measurements falling within the newly set standard deviation bounds.

![Sensor Noise](Docs/06_SensorNoise.png)

```c
Simulation #14 (../config/06_SensorNoise.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.GPS.X-Quad.Pos.X) was less than MeasuredStdDev_GPSPosXY for 68% of the time
PASS: ABS(Quad.IMU.AX-0.000000) was less than MeasuredStdDev_AccelXY for 70% of the time
```


### Step 2: Attitude Estimation ###

I used the original linear integration code as shown below and the resulting plot follows. Clearly the error in the estimated roll pitch and yaw are large.

```c++
void QuadEstimatorEKF::UpdateFromIMU(V3F accel, V3F gyro)
{
  ////////////////////////////// BEGIN STUDENT CODE ///////////////////////////
  // SMALL ANGLE GYRO INTEGRATION:
  // (replace the code below)
  // make sure you comment it out when you add your own code -- otherwise e.g. you might integrate yaw twice

  float predictedPitch = pitchEst + dtIMU * gyro.y;
  float predictedRoll = rollEst + dtIMU * gyro.x;
  ekfState(6) = AngleNormF(ekfState(6) + dtIMU * gyro.z);

  /////////////////////////////// END STUDENT CODE ////////////////////////////

  // CALCULATE UPDATE
  accelRoll = atan2f(accel.y, accel.z);
  accelPitch = atan2f(-accel.x, 9.81f);

  // FUSE INTEGRATION AND UPDATE
  rollEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedRoll) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelRoll;
  pitchEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedPitch) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelPitch;

  lastGyro = gyro;
}

```

![linear attitude control](Docs/07_Altitude_Control_L.png)

I then changed the implementation to the non linear integration using the body rate using quaternions and the resulting error in the roll pitch and yaw estimates are much smaller as shown the following graph.

```c++
void QuadEstimatorEKF::UpdateFromIMU(V3F accel, V3F gyro)
{  
  ////////////////////////////// BEGIN STUDENT CODE ///////////////////////////
  // SMALL ANGLE GYRO INTEGRATION:
  // (replace the code below)
  // make sure you comment it out when you add your own code -- otherwise e.g. you might integrate yaw twice
  
  // Non linear integration of the body rate using quaternions.
  Quaternion<float> q = Quaternion<float>::FromEuler123_RPY(rollEst, pitchEst, ekfState(6));
  q.IntegrateBodyRate(gyro, dtIMU);
  
  float predictedPitch = q.Pitch();
  float predictedRoll = q.Roll();
  ekfState(6) = AngleNormF(q.Yaw());

  /////////////////////////////// END STUDENT CODE ////////////////////////////

  // CALCULATE UPDATE
  accelRoll = atan2f(accel.y, accel.z);
  accelPitch = atan2f(-accel.x, 9.81f);

  // FUSE INTEGRATION AND UPDATE
  rollEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedRoll) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelRoll;
  pitchEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedPitch) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelPitch;

  lastGyro = gyro;
}
```



![non linear attitude control](Docs/07_Altitude_Control_NL.png)



***Success criteria:*** *Your attitude estimator needs to get within 0.1 rad for each of the Euler angles for at least 3 seconds.*

```c
Simulation #63 (../config/07_AttitudeEstimation.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.MaxEuler) was less than 0.100000 for at least 3.000000 seconds
```


### Step 3: Prediction Step ###

In this next step you will be implementing the prediction step of your filter.


1. Run scenario `08_PredictState`.  This scenario is configured to use a perfect IMU (only an IMU). Due to the sensitivity of double-integration to attitude errors, we've made the accelerometer update very insignificant (`QuadEstimatorEKF.attitudeTau = 100`).  The plots on this simulation show element of your estimated state and that of the true state.  At the moment you should see that your estimated state does not follow the true state.

   

2. In `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`, implement the state prediction step in the `PredictState()` functon. If you do it correctly, when you run scenario `08_PredictState` you should see the estimator state track the actual state, with only reasonably slow drift, as shown in the figure below:

3. ![predict drift](Docs/08_PredictState_1.png)

![predict drift](images/predict-slow-drift.png)

3. Now let's introduce a realistic IMU, one with noise.  Run scenario `09_PredictionCov`. You will see a small fleet of quadcopter all using your prediction code to integrate forward. You will see two plots:
   - The top graph shows 10 (prediction-only) position X estimates
   - The bottom graph shows 10 (prediction-only) velocity estimates
   You will notice however that the estimated covariance (white bounds) currently do not capture the growing errors.

4. In `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`, calculate the partial derivative of the body-to-global rotation matrix in the function `GetRbgPrime()`.  Once you have that function implement, implement the rest of the prediction step (predict the state covariance forward) in `Predict()`.

**Hint: see section 7.2 of [Estimation for Quadrotors](https://www.overleaf.com/read/vymfngphcccj) for a refresher on the the transition model and the partial derivatives you may need**

**Hint: When it comes to writing the function for GetRbgPrime, make sure to triple check you've set all the correct parts of the matrix.**

**Hint: recall that the control input is the acceleration!**

5. I tuned the process parameters`QPosXYStd` to 0.01 and the `QVelXYStd` to 0.1 in `QuadEstimatorEKF.txt` to keep the 10 graphs within the white sigma bounds. The result looks as follows:

![good covariance](Docs/09_PredictCovariance_1.png)

***Success criteria:*** *This step doesn't have any specific measurable criteria being checked.*


### Step 4: Magnetometer Update ###

Up until now we've only used the accelerometer and gyro for our state estimation.  In this step, you will be adding the information from the magnetometer to improve your filter's performance in estimating the vehicle's heading.

1. Run scenario `10_MagUpdate`.  This scenario uses a realistic IMU, but the magnetometer update hasn’t been implemented yet. As a result, you will notice that the estimate yaw is drifting away from the real value (and the estimated standard deviation is also increasing).  Note that in this case the plot is showing you the estimated yaw error (`quad.est.e.yaw`), which is drifting away from zero as the simulation runs.  You should also see the estimated standard deviation of that state (white boundary) is also increasing.

2. Tune the parameter `QYawStd` (`QuadEstimatorEKF.txt`) for the QuadEstimatorEKF so that it approximately captures the magnitude of the drift, as demonstrated here:

![mag drift](images/mag-drift.png)

3. Implement magnetometer update in the function `UpdateFromMag()`.  Once completed, you should see a resulting plot similar to this one:

![mag good](Docs/10_MagUpdate_1.png)

***Success criteria:*** *Your goal is to both have an estimated standard deviation that accurately captures the error and maintain an error of less than 0.1rad in heading for at least 10 seconds of the simulation.*

```c
Simulation #4 (../config/10_MagUpdate.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Yaw) was less than 0.120000 for at least 10.000000 seconds
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Yaw-0.000000) was less than Quad.Est.S.Yaw for 71% of the time
```


### Step 5: Closed Loop + GPS Update ###

1. Run scenario `11_GPSUpdate`.  To get the realistic IMU I modified`config/11_GPSUpdate.txt`:

```
Quad.UseIdealEstimator = 0
#SimIMU.AccelStd = 0,0,0
#SimIMU.GyroStd = 0,0,0
```

Tuned the process noise model in `QuadEstimatorEKF.txt` to try to approximately capture the error you see with the estimated uncertainty (standard deviation) of the filter.

```
# GPS measurement std deviations
GPSPosXYStd = 10
GPSPosZStd = 5
GPSVelXYStd = .1
GPSVelZStd = .3
```

Implemented the EKF GPS Update in the function `UpdateFromGPS()` as shown below.

```c++
void QuadEstimatorEKF::UpdateFromGPS(V3F pos, V3F vel)
{
  VectorXf z(6), zFromX(6);
  z(0) = pos.x;
  z(1) = pos.y;
  z(2) = pos.z;
  z(3) = vel.x;
  z(4) = vel.y;
  z(5) = vel.z;

  MatrixXf hPrime(6, QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES);
  hPrime.setZero();

  // GPS UPDATE
  // Hints: 
  //  - The GPS measurement covariance is available in member variable R_GPS
  //  - this is a very simple update
  ////////////////////////////// BEGIN STUDENT CODE ///////////////////////////

  hPrime.topLeftCorner(QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1, QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1) = MatrixXf::Identity(QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1, QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1);
  zFromX = hPrime * ekfState;
  
  /////////////////////////////// END STUDENT CODE ////////////////////////////

  Update(z, hPrime, R_GPS, zFromX);
}
```

The result is a run shown below which meets the estimate position error of < 1m. 

![mag good](Docs/11_GPSUpdate_1.png)

***Success criteria:*** *Your objective is to complete the entire simulation cycle with estimated position error of < 1m.*

```c
Simulation #3 (../config/11_GPSUpdate.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Pos) was less than 1.000000 for at least 20.000000 seconds
```

### Step 6: Adding Your Controller ###

Up to this point, we have been working with a controller that has been relaxed to work with an estimated state instead of a real state.  So now, you will see how well your controller performs and de-tune your controller accordingly.

1. Replace `QuadController.cpp` with the controller you wrote in the last project.

2. Replace `QuadControlParams.txt` with the control parameters you came up with in the last project.

3. Run scenario `11_GPSUpdate`. If your controller crashes immediately do not panic. Flying from an estimated state (even with ideal sensors) is very different from flying with ideal pose. You may need to de-tune your controller. Decrease the position and velocity gains (we’ve seen about 30% detuning being effective) to stabilize it.  Your goal is to once again complete the entire simulation cycle with an estimated position error of < 1m.

**Hint: you may find it easiest to do your de-tuning as a 2 step process by reverting to ideal sensors and de-tuning under those conditions first.**

***Success criteria:*** *Your objective is to complete the entire simulation cycle with estimated position error of < 1m.*


## Tips and Tricks ##

 - When it comes to transposing matrices, `.transposeInPlace()` is the function you want to use to transpose a matrix

 - The [Estimation for Quadrotors](https://www.overleaf.com/read/vymfngphcccj) document contains a helpful mathematical breakdown of the core elements on your estimator

## Submission ##

For this project, you will need to submit:

 - a completed estimator that meets the performance criteria for each of the steps by submitting:
   - `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`
   - `config/QuadEstimatorEKF.txt`

 - a re-tuned controller that, in conjunction with your tuned estimator, is capable of meeting the criteria laid out in Step 6 by submitting:
   - `QuadController.cpp`
   - `config/QuadControlParams.txt`

 - a write up addressing all the points of the rubric

## Authors ##

Thanks to Fotokite for the initial development of the project code and simulator.

Commit message:

Got Step 6 code in and working.

FCND-Estimation-CPP.md, after:

# Estimation Project #

Welcome to the estimation project.  In this project, you will be developing the estimation portion of the controller used in the CPP simulator.  By the end of the project, your simulated quad will be flying with your estimator and your custom controller (from the previous project)!

This README is broken down into the following sections:

 - [Setup](#setup) - the environment and code setup required to get started and a brief overview of the project structure
 - [The Tasks](#the-tasks) - the tasks you will need to complete for the project
 - [Tips and Tricks](#tips-and-tricks) - some additional tips and tricks you may find useful along the way
 - [Submission](#submission) - overview of the requirements for your project submission


## Setup ##

This project will continue to use the C++ development environment you set up in the Controls C++ project.

 1. Clone the repository
 ```
 git clone https://github.com/udacity/FCND-Estimation-CPP.git
 ```

 2. Import the code into your IDE like done in the [Controls C++ project](https://github.com/udacity/FCND-Controls-CPP#development-environment-setup)

 3. You should now be able to compile and run the estimation simulator just as you did in the controls project


### Project Structure ###

For this project, you will be interacting with a few more files than before.

 - The EKF is already partially implemented for you in `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`

 - Parameters for tuning the EKF are in the parameter file `QuadEstimatorEKF.txt`

 - When you turn on various sensors (the scenarios configure them, e.g. `Quad.Sensors += SimIMU, SimMag, SimGPS`), additional sensor plots will become available to see what the simulated sensors measure.

 - The EKF implementation exposes both the estimated state and a number of additional variables. In particular:

   - `Quad.Est.E.X` is the error in estimated X position from true value.  More generally, the variables in `<vehicle>.Est.E.*` are relative errors, though some are combined errors (e.g. MaxEuler).

   - `Quad.Est.S.X` is the estimated standard deviation of the X state (that is, the square root of the appropriate diagonal variable in the covariance matrix). More generally, the variables in `<vehicle>.Est.S.*` are standard deviations calculated from the estimator state covariance matrix.

   - `Quad.Est.D` contains miscellaneous additional debug variables useful in diagnosing the filter. You may or might not find these useful but they were helpful to us in verifying the filter and may give you some ideas if you hit a block.


#### `config` Directory ####

In the `config` directory, in addition to finding the configuration files for your controller and your estimator, you will also see configuration files for each of the simulations.  For this project, you will be working with simulations 06 through 11 and you may find it insightful to take a look at the configuration for the simulation.

As an example, if we look through the configuration file for scenario 07, we see the following parameters controlling the sensor:

```
# Sensors
Quad.Sensors = SimIMU
# use a perfect IMU
SimIMU.AccelStd = 0,0,0
SimIMU.GyroStd = 0,0,0
```

This configuration tells us that the simulator is only using an IMU and the sensor data will have no noise.  You will notice that for each simulator these parameters will change slightly as additional sensors are being used and the noise behavior of the sensors change.


## The Tasks ##

Once again, you will be building up your estimator in pieces.  At each step, there will be a set of success criteria that will be displayed both in the plots and in the terminal output to help you along the way.

Project outline:

 - [Step 1: Sensor Noise](#step-1-sensor-noise)
 - [Step 2: Attitude Estimation](#step-2-attitude-estimation)
 - [Step 3: Prediction Step](#step-3-prediction-step)
 - [Step 4: Magnetometer Update](#step-4-magnetometer-update)
 - [Step 5: Closed Loop + GPS Update](#step-5-closed-loop--gps-update)
 - [Step 6: Adding Your Controller](#step-6-adding-your-controller)



### Step 1: Sensor Noise ###

I ran the scenario_06_NoisySensors and recorded the data into the two data files in config/log/Graph1.txt and config/log/Graph2.txt. I then ran the Compute-Std.py on these files to obtain the standard deviations of the Quad.GPS.X and the Quad.IMU.AX data as follows.

```c
GPS X Std: 0.7204664990698312
IMU X Std: 0.5102750028692653
```

This data was then copied onto the config/06_SensorNoise.txt file as shown below

```c
MeasuredStdDev_GPSPosXY = 0.7204664990698312
MeasuredStdDev_AccelXY = 0.5102750028692653
```

The result when I ran the simulation is shown below with 68% of the measurements falling within the newly set standard deviation bounds.

![Sensor Noise](Docs/06_SensorNoise.png)

```c
Simulation #14 (../config/06_SensorNoise.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.GPS.X-Quad.Pos.X) was less than MeasuredStdDev_GPSPosXY for 68% of the time
PASS: ABS(Quad.IMU.AX-0.000000) was less than MeasuredStdDev_AccelXY for 70% of the time
```


### Step 2: Attitude Estimation ###

I used the original linear integration code as shown below and the resulting plot follows. Clearly the error in the estimated roll pitch and yaw are large.

```c++
void QuadEstimatorEKF::UpdateFromIMU(V3F accel, V3F gyro)
{
  ////////////////////////////// BEGIN STUDENT CODE ///////////////////////////
  // SMALL ANGLE GYRO INTEGRATION:
  // (replace the code below)
  // make sure you comment it out when you add your own code -- otherwise e.g. you might integrate yaw twice

  float predictedPitch = pitchEst + dtIMU * gyro.y;
  float predictedRoll = rollEst + dtIMU * gyro.x;
  ekfState(6) = AngleNormF(ekfState(6) + dtIMU * gyro.z);

  /////////////////////////////// END STUDENT CODE ////////////////////////////

  // CALCULATE UPDATE
  accelRoll = atan2f(accel.y, accel.z);
  accelPitch = atan2f(-accel.x, 9.81f);

  // FUSE INTEGRATION AND UPDATE
  rollEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedRoll) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelRoll;
  pitchEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedPitch) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelPitch;

  lastGyro = gyro;
}

```

![linear attitude control](Docs/07_Altitude_Control_L.png)

I then changed the implementation to the non linear integration using the body rate using quaternions and the resulting error in the roll pitch and yaw estimates are much smaller as shown the following graph.

```c++
void QuadEstimatorEKF::UpdateFromIMU(V3F accel, V3F gyro)
{  
  ////////////////////////////// BEGIN STUDENT CODE ///////////////////////////
  // SMALL ANGLE GYRO INTEGRATION:
  // (replace the code below)
  // make sure you comment it out when you add your own code -- otherwise e.g. you might integrate yaw twice
  
  // Non linear integration of the body rate using quaternions.
  Quaternion<float> q = Quaternion<float>::FromEuler123_RPY(rollEst, pitchEst, ekfState(6));
  q.IntegrateBodyRate(gyro, dtIMU);
  
  float predictedPitch = q.Pitch();
  float predictedRoll = q.Roll();
  ekfState(6) = AngleNormF(q.Yaw());

  /////////////////////////////// END STUDENT CODE ////////////////////////////

  // CALCULATE UPDATE
  accelRoll = atan2f(accel.y, accel.z);
  accelPitch = atan2f(-accel.x, 9.81f);

  // FUSE INTEGRATION AND UPDATE
  rollEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedRoll) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelRoll;
  pitchEst = attitudeTau / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * (predictedPitch) + dtIMU / (attitudeTau + dtIMU) * accelPitch;

  lastGyro = gyro;
}
```



![non linear attitude control](Docs/07_Altitude_Control_NL.png)



***Success criteria:*** *Your attitude estimator needs to get within 0.1 rad for each of the Euler angles for at least 3 seconds.*

```c
Simulation #63 (../config/07_AttitudeEstimation.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.MaxEuler) was less than 0.100000 for at least 3.000000 seconds
```


### Step 3: Prediction Step ###

In this next step you will be implementing the prediction step of your filter.


1. Run scenario `08_PredictState`.  This scenario is configured to use a perfect IMU (only an IMU). Due to the sensitivity of double-integration to attitude errors, we've made the accelerometer update very insignificant (`QuadEstimatorEKF.attitudeTau = 100`).  The plots on this simulation show element of your estimated state and that of the true state.  At the moment you should see that your estimated state does not follow the true state.

   

2. In `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`, implement the state prediction step in the `PredictState()` functon. If you do it correctly, when you run scenario `08_PredictState` you should see the estimator state track the actual state, with only reasonably slow drift, as shown in the figure below:

3. ![predict drift](Docs/08_PredictState_1.png)

![predict drift](images/predict-slow-drift.png)

3. Now let's introduce a realistic IMU, one with noise.  Run scenario `09_PredictionCov`. You will see a small fleet of quadcopter all using your prediction code to integrate forward. You will see two plots:
   - The top graph shows 10 (prediction-only) position X estimates
   - The bottom graph shows 10 (prediction-only) velocity estimates
   You will notice however that the estimated covariance (white bounds) currently do not capture the growing errors.

4. In `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`, calculate the partial derivative of the body-to-global rotation matrix in the function `GetRbgPrime()`.  Once you have that function implement, implement the rest of the prediction step (predict the state covariance forward) in `Predict()`.

**Hint: see section 7.2 of [Estimation for Quadrotors](https://www.overleaf.com/read/vymfngphcccj) for a refresher on the the transition model and the partial derivatives you may need**

**Hint: When it comes to writing the function for GetRbgPrime, make sure to triple check you've set all the correct parts of the matrix.**

**Hint: recall that the control input is the acceleration!**

5. I tuned the process parameters`QPosXYStd` to 0.01 and the `QVelXYStd` to 0.1 in `QuadEstimatorEKF.txt` to keep the 10 graphs within the white sigma bounds. The result looks as follows:

![good covariance](Docs/09_PredictCovariance_1.png)

***Success criteria:*** *This step doesn't have any specific measurable criteria being checked.*


### Step 4: Magnetometer Update ###

Up until now we've only used the accelerometer and gyro for our state estimation.  In this step, you will be adding the information from the magnetometer to improve your filter's performance in estimating the vehicle's heading.

1. Run scenario `10_MagUpdate`.  This scenario uses a realistic IMU, but the magnetometer update hasn’t been implemented yet. As a result, you will notice that the estimate yaw is drifting away from the real value (and the estimated standard deviation is also increasing).  Note that in this case the plot is showing you the estimated yaw error (`quad.est.e.yaw`), which is drifting away from zero as the simulation runs.  You should also see the estimated standard deviation of that state (white boundary) is also increasing.

2. Tune the parameter `QYawStd` (`QuadEstimatorEKF.txt`) for the QuadEstimatorEKF so that it approximately captures the magnitude of the drift, as demonstrated here:

![mag drift](images/mag-drift.png)

3. Implement magnetometer update in the function `UpdateFromMag()`.  Once completed, you should see a resulting plot similar to this one:

![mag good](Docs/10_MagUpdate_1.png)

***Success criteria:*** *Your goal is to both have an estimated standard deviation that accurately captures the error and maintain an error of less than 0.1rad in heading for at least 10 seconds of the simulation.*

```c
Simulation #4 (../config/10_MagUpdate.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Yaw) was less than 0.120000 for at least 10.000000 seconds
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Yaw-0.000000) was less than Quad.Est.S.Yaw for 71% of the time
```


### Step 5: Closed Loop + GPS Update ###

1. Run scenario `11_GPSUpdate`.  To get the realistic IMU I modified`config/11_GPSUpdate.txt`:

```
Quad.UseIdealEstimator = 0
#SimIMU.AccelStd = 0,0,0
#SimIMU.GyroStd = 0,0,0
```

Tuned the process noise model in `QuadEstimatorEKF.txt` to try to approximately capture the error you see with the estimated uncertainty (standard deviation) of the filter.

```
# GPS measurement std deviations
GPSPosXYStd = 10
GPSPosZStd = 5
GPSVelXYStd = .1
GPSVelZStd = .3
```

Implemented the EKF GPS Update in the function `UpdateFromGPS()` as shown below.

```c++
void QuadEstimatorEKF::UpdateFromGPS(V3F pos, V3F vel)
{
  VectorXf z(6), zFromX(6);
  z(0) = pos.x;
  z(1) = pos.y;
  z(2) = pos.z;
  z(3) = vel.x;
  z(4) = vel.y;
  z(5) = vel.z;

  MatrixXf hPrime(6, QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES);
  hPrime.setZero();

  // GPS UPDATE
  // Hints: 
  //  - The GPS measurement covariance is available in member variable R_GPS
  //  - this is a very simple update
  ////////////////////////////// BEGIN STUDENT CODE ///////////////////////////

  hPrime.topLeftCorner(QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1, QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1) = MatrixXf::Identity(QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1, QUAD_EKF_NUM_STATES - 1);
  zFromX = hPrime * ekfState;
  
  /////////////////////////////// END STUDENT CODE ////////////////////////////

  Update(z, hPrime, R_GPS, zFromX);
}
```

The result is a run shown below which meets the estimate position error of < 1m. 

![mag good](Docs/11_GPSUpdate_1.png)

***Success criteria:*** *Your objective is to complete the entire simulation cycle with estimated position error of < 1m.*

```c
Simulation #3 (../config/11_GPSUpdate.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Pos) was less than 1.000000 for at least 20.000000 seconds
```

### Step 6: Adding Your Controller ###

Up to this point, we have been working with a controller that has been relaxed to work with an estimated state instead of a real state.  So now, you will see how well your controller performs and de-tune your controller accordingly.

I replaced all the QuadControl.cpp functions with the code I made for the FCND-Controller-CPP project. I confirmed that the pass criterion of < 1m was met as with the original code.

1. Replace `QuadController.cpp` with the controller you wrote in the last project.

2. Replace `QuadControlParams.txt` with the control parameters you came up with in the last project.

3. Run scenario `11_GPSUpdate`. If your controller crashes immediately do not panic. Flying from an estimated state (even with ideal sensors) is very different from flying with ideal pose. You may need to de-tune your controller. Decrease the position and velocity gains (we’ve seen about 30% detuning being effective) to stabilize it.  Your goal is to once again complete the entire simulation cycle with an estimated position error of < 1m.

**Hint: you may find it easiest to do your de-tuning as a 2 step process by reverting to ideal sensors and de-tuning under those conditions first.**

***Success criteria:*** *Your objective is to complete the entire simulation cycle with estimated position error of < 1m.

```c
Simulation #12 (../config/11_GPSUpdate.txt)
PASS: ABS(Quad.Est.E.Pos) was less than 1.000000 for at least 20.000000 seconds
```


## Tips and Tricks ##

 - When it comes to transposing matrices, `.transposeInPlace()` is the function you want to use to transpose a matrix

 - The [Estimation for Quadrotors](https://www.overleaf.com/read/vymfngphcccj) document contains a helpful mathematical breakdown of the core elements on your estimator

## Submission ##

For this project, you will need to submit:

 - a completed estimator that meets the performance criteria for each of the steps by submitting:
   - `QuadEstimatorEKF.cpp`
   - `config/QuadEstimatorEKF.txt`

 - a re-tuned controller that, in conjunction with your tuned estimator, is capable of meeting the criteria laid out in Step 6 by submitting:
   - `QuadController.cpp`
   - `config/QuadControlParams.txt`

 - a write up addressing all the points of the rubric

## Authors ##

Thanks to Fotokite for the initial development of the project code and simulator.
